Add section on limitations around privileges and missing labels (#1453)
neo4j/docs-operations: modules/ROOT/pages/authentication-authorization/limitations.adoc

will only return label `:A`, because that is the only label for which traversal was granted.

[[access-control-limitations-non-existing-labels]]
=== Privileges for non-existing labels, relationship types, and property names

> Privileges on non-existing labels, relationship types, or property names will not take effect until the labels, relationship types, or property names have been created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Privileges for non-existent labels, relationship types, and property names have an effect only once the latter are created.
```

> When authorizing a user, only privileges for existing labels, relationship types, and property names are applied.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In other words, when authorizing a user, only privileges for existing labels, relationship types, and property names are applied.
```

For example, let's assume that you have a new, freshly-created empty database, called `testing`, and a user named `Alice` with a `custom` role.
[NOTE]
=====
The example focuses only on nodes and their labels, though the same principle applies to relationships and their relationship type, and properties (on both nodes and relationships) and their names.
=====

Using the following command, you define some privileges to the `custom` role:
[source, cypher]
----
GRANT MATCH {*} ON GRAPH testing NODES * TO custom
GRANT CREATE ON GRAPH testing NODES `A` TO custom
GRANT SET LABEL `A` ON GRAPH testing TO custom
GRANT CREATE NEW NODE LABEL ON DATABASE testing TO custom
----

This means that when `Alice` executes:

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (:`A`)
----

She will get the following exception even though she is allowed to create new labels:
[source]
----
Create node with labels 'A' on database 'testing' is not allowed for user 'Alice' with roles [PUBLIC, custom].
----

However, running the same query again will work, and the node will be created.
This is because the failed creation still creates the label, making it no longer non-existent when the query is run a second time.

> To ensure she does not fail on the initial attempt, running the `db.createLabel()` procedure is good practice for all non-existing labels that get assigned privileges.

Author: >when creating the `custom` role

I think it's more when creating/granting the privileges to the role than creating the roles though 🤔 

And since the grant privilege commands are run against the system database it feels uncertain what `that particular database` points to

Maybe something like:
```suggestion
To ensure success on the first attempt, when setting up the privileges for the `custom` role, the administrator should run the `db.createLabel()` procedure on the affected databases for all non-existing labels that get assigned privileges.
```

> When creating the custom role, connect to 'testing' and run `CALL db.createLabel('A')` to ensure Alice creates the node successfully on her first attempt.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: This comment has the full procedure call to solve the example above though, do we not want to give that part of the example as more than the general sentence above?

Reviewer: Those three sentences felt a bit odd and out of context. That's why I tried to incorporate them in the example. Sorry, I pushed your suggestion before reading this one.
Ok, I updated my suggestion.

will only return label `:A`, because that is the only label for which traversal was granted.

[[access-control-limitations-non-existing-labels]]
=== Privileges and non-existing labels, relationship types and property names

> Privileges on non-existing labels, relationship types, or property names will not take effect.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add something like `until they are created`. It would be nice to clarify to avoid leading the user into the assumption that the privilege will never work if the label did not exists when the privilege was created. I know this get's explained later on in the example, but just wan't to avoid misunderstandings early on.

> Privileges on non-existing labels, relationship types, or property names will not take effect until the labels, relationship types, or property names have been created.

Author: Hannes had a review comment about adding something to the effect of `until they [the labels/rel types/prop names] have been created` so I'd not want to remove that again

```suggestion
Privileges for non-existent labels, relationship types, and property names have no effect until the labels, relationship types, and property names have been created.
```

> Privileges on non-existing labels, relationship types, or property names will not take effect until the labels, relationship types, or property names have been created.

Reviewer: But when they are created, they are no longer non-existent.

> Privileges on non-existing labels, relationship types, or property names will not take effect until the labels, relationship types, or property names have been created.

Author: Accepted your separate comment suggestion so I'll resolve this one

Only privileges on existing labels, relationship types, and property names are applied when authorizing the user.
This is due to the need to resolve them internally to be able to check against the privileges when the users attempt to use the labels later on.
And non-existing labels, relationship types and property names won't resolve as they do not yet exist.

> A way around this is to create the label, relationship type or property name using the `db.createLabel`, `db.createRelationshipType`, and `db.createProperty` procedures on the relevant database for the privilege when setting them up.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A way around this is to create the label, relationship type, or property name using the `db.createLabel()`, `db.createRelationshipType()`, and `db.createProperty()` procedures on the relevant database when creating the privileges.
```

> A way around this is to create the label, relationship type or property name using the `db.createLabel`, `db.createRelationshipType`, and `db.createProperty` procedures on the relevant database for the privilege when setting them up.

Author: the privileges (though I can see I have singular on privilege but plural on them)
```suggestion
A way around this is to create the label, relationship type or property name using the `db.createLabel`, `db.createRelationshipType`, and `db.createProperty` procedures on the relevant database for the privilege when setting it up.
```
```suggestion
A way around this is to create the label, relationship type or property name using the `db.createLabel`, `db.createRelationshipType`, and `db.createProperty` procedures on the relevant database for the privileges when setting them up.
```

> A way around this is to create the label, relationship type or property name using the `db.createLabel`, `db.createRelationshipType`, and `db.createProperty` procedures on the relevant database for the privilege when setting them up.

Author: this had a separate comment with a suggestion that have been applied so I'll resolve this one

Labels, relationship types and property names are considered non-existing in a database if on that database:

* There has never been any node with the label, relationship with that relationship type, or property with that name on any node or relationship.
* There has never been an attempt to add any node with the label, relationship with that relationship type, or property with that name on any node or relationship.

> The attempted creation will add it to the known labels, relationship types, and property names even if the creation itself fails (unless it fails on missing or denied privileges to create new labels, relationship types, or property names).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The attempted creation adds it to the known labels, relationship types, and property names even if the creation itself fails (unless it fails on missing or denied privileges to create new labels, relationship types, or property names).
```

> * They haven't been created using any of the `db.createLabel`, `db.createRelationshipType`, or `db.createProperty` procedures.

Author: ```suggestion
* They have not been created using any of the `db.createLabel()`, `db.createRelationshipType()`, or `db.createProperty()` procedures.
```

There is currently no way to remove a label, relationship type or property name from the database once it is created so once it has become existing it'll not go back to be non-existing.

To give an illustrative example, lets say we start on a fresh recently added database `testing`.
It has no nodes or relationships nor has it ever had any, so there are no previous labels, relationship types, or property names either.
This example will only focus on nodes and their labels, though the same principle applies to relationships and their relationship types, and properties and their name on both nodes and relationships.

> In this case, there is a user `Alice` with the role `custom` defined by:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the following command, you define some privileges to the `custom` role:
```

[source, cypher]
----
GRANT MATCH {*} ON GRAPH testing NODES * TO custom
GRANT CREATE ON GRAPH testing NODES `A` TO custom
GRANT SET LABEL `A` ON GRAPH testing TO custom
GRANT CREATE NEW NODE LABEL ON DATABASE testing TO custom
----

> If `Alice` were to execute

Reviewer: ```suggestion
They mean that when `Alice` executes:
```

Author: Not sure I like `they` here, sounded odd to me?

Reviewer: Yeah, agree. Maybe, 
```suggestion
So, when `Alice` executes:
```

Author: Maybe, I did one suggestion when updating the links so lets see what you think about that one or if we should switch to the above

[source, cypher]
----
CREATE (:`A`)
----

> They would get an exception even though they are allowed to create new labels

Reviewer: ```suggestion
She will get the following exception even though she is allowed to create new labels:
```

[source]
----
Create node with labels 'A' on database 'testing' is not allowed for user 'Alice' with roles [PUBLIC, custom].
----

> However, running the same query again works and the node is created.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, running the same query again will work, and the node will be created.
```

> This is due to the failed creation still creating the label, and therefore it is no longer non-existing when running the query as second time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is because the failed creation still creates the label, making it no longer non-existent when the query is run a second time.
```

> To ensure we don't fail on the initial attempt it is good practice running the `db.createLabel` procedure for all non-existing labels that gets assigned privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To ensure she does not fail on the initial attempt, running the `db.createLabel` procedure is good practice for all non-existing labels that get assigned privileges.
```

Author: ```suggestion
To ensure she does not fail on the initial attempt, running the `db.createLabel()` procedure is good practice for all non-existing labels that get assigned privileges.
```

> If when setting up the custom role the administrator also connected to `testing` and called:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When creating the custom role, connect to 'testing' and run `CALL db.createLabel('A')` to ensure Alice creates the node successfully on her first attempt.
```

> [source, cypher]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> CALL db.createLabel('A')

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ----

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Then `Alice` would succeed on their first attempt to create the node instead of first getting an exception and then succeeding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
